content/about.md, before:

---
title: About Sean
layout: about
tags: [about, sean]
modified: 2014-08-08T20:53:07.573882-04:00
slug: about
header:
  feature: neon-cropped
  credit: Sean Hagen
  creditlink: https://www.flickr.com/photos/rebelcan/2309011771
--- 

### Who The Hell Are You

I'm a developer living in near Vancouver, British Columbia. I've worked for a
wide variety of companies in the past, but always doing stuff related to web
development. I cut my teeth as a youngin on **Perl**, later picking up
**PHP**. For a few years I mostly used **Ruby**, but lately I've been using
**Go** for everything -- and it's awesome.


### Gettin Creative

Lately I've started doing some more creating stuff. I'm a co-host on the [DMs of
Vancouver](http://dmsofvancouver.ca), a podcast that goes over a variety of
topics about D&D and being a DM. I'm also a co-host on a soon-to-be-released
podcast; A Guy, a Girl, and a Vampire Slayer -- a Buffy the Vampire Slayer
re-watch podcast. 

### Anything Else?

I'm also learning how to do more hardware based stuff with [Arduino](9) and the
[Raspberry Pi](10). I'm not the best at soldering yet, but I'm getting better.


### Social?

You can find me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/seanphagen) and [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/seanpatrickhagen/).

Like what I'm doing?

<a href="https://www.patreon.com/bePatron?u=834033" data-patreon-widget-type="become-patron-button">Become a Patron!</a><script async src="https://c6.patreon.com/becomePatronButton.bundle.js"></script>

Commit message:

Update my bio
It's been a while

content/about.md, after:

---
title: About
layout: about
tags: [about, sean]
modified: 2014-08-08T20:53:07.573882-04:00
slug: about
header:
  feature: neon-cropped
  credit: Sean Hagen
  creditlink: https://www.flickr.com/photos/rebelcan/2309011771
--- 

### Who The Hell Are You

I'm a developer living in near Vancouver, British Columbia. I've worked for a
wide variety of companies in the past, but always doing stuff related to web
development. I cut my teeth as a youngin on **Perl**, later picking up
**PHP**, then moving on to **Ruby**. 

For the last few years though, I've been a full-fledged **Go**pher. 

I'm also intruiged by hardware stuff like the Arduino or Raspberry Pi. I'm not a
great electrical engineer, but I keep trying. One of these days I'll manage to
keep the magic smoke in the chips.

### Gettin Creative

I'm also the co-host of a tabletop RPG podcast: [DMs of
Vancouver](http://dmsofvancouver.ca). My co-host Jessy and I talk to our friends
and guests from the industry about various things you can do to be a better GM
at the table. 

I've also got a bunch of other creative hobbies, which are all documented here
on this site.

### Social?

You can find me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/seanphagen) and [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/seanpatrickhagen/).
